releases: add tidb 5.4.2 release notes (#9379)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-5.4.2.md

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Fix a bug that BR reports `ErrRestoreTableIDMismatch` in RawKV mode [#35279](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35279)
        - Fix a bug that BR does not retry when an error occurs in saving files [#34865](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34865)
        - Fix a panic issue when BR is running [#34956](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34956)
        - Fix the issue that BR cannot handle S3 internal errors [#34350](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34350)
        - Fix a bug that BR gets stuck when the restore operation meets some unrecoverable errors [#33200](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33200)

    + TiCDC

        - Fix data loss that occurs in special incremental scanning scenarios [#5468](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5468)
        - Fix a bug that the redo log manager flushes logs before writing logs [#5486](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5486)
        - Fix a bug that the resolved ts moves too fast when some tables are not maintained by the redo writer [#5486](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5486)

>         - Add the UUID suffix to the redo log file name to fix the issue that file name conflicts may cause data loss [#5486](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5486)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that file name conflicts may cause data loss [#5486](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5486)
```

---
title: TiDB 5.4.2 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 5.4.2 Release Notes

Release Date: xx xx, 2022

TiDB version: 5.4.2

## __unsorted

+ PingCAP/TiDB

    <!--transaction-->
    - ```release-note [#34906](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34906)

>     - ```release-note [#35198](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35198)

Reviewer 2: - Improve the recovery time if the tikv hibernate region is enabled. [#34906](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34906)
- Fix the issue that the column list does not work in the load data statement. [#35198](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35198)

    <!--diagnosis-->
    - ```release-note [#35340](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35340)

    <!--sql-infra-->
    - ```release-note [#34722](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34722)
    - ```release-note [#34638](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/34638)

>     - ```release-note [#33965](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33965)

Reviewer 3: Pull 34638 is only merged into a hotfix version and not merged into release-5.4.2, so I skipped it. The other 2 are added to the `bug` part.

>     <!--planner-->
>     - ```release-note [#34613](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34613)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    <!--planner-->
    - Fix wrong TableDual plans cached under binary protocol [#34690] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34690) [#34678] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34678)
    - Fix the wrongly inferred null flag of firstrow agg func in EqualAll case [#34584](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34584)
    - Fix the wrong 2-phase aggregate plan for TiFlash [#34682](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34682)
    - Fix the wrong null flag of final aggregate after aggregate is pushed through outer join [#34465](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34465)
    - Fix the wrong memory-usage value used when Plan Cache evicts [#34613](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34613)
```

+ TiKV/TiKV

    - Fix the issue of unexpected `panic` on analyzed statistics when `max_sample_size` is set to `0`. [#11192](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11192)

>     (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the potential issue of mistakenly reporting TiKV panics when exiting TiKV [#12231](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12231)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the potential issue of mistakenly reporting TiKV panics when exiting TiKV [#12231](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12231)
```

    - Fix possible panic when source peer catch up logs by snapshot in merge [#12663](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12663)
    - Fix potential panic when a peer is being split and destroyed at the same time [#12825](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12825)
    - Reload TLS certificate automatically when it changes. [#12546](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12546)
    - Fix bug which causes frequent pd client reconnection [#12345](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12345)

>     (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Improvements> TiKV)- Improve the health check to detect unavailable Raftstore, so that the TiKV client can update Region Cache in time [#12398](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12398)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Improve the health check to detect unavailable Raftstore, so that the TiKV client can update Region Cache in time [#12398](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12398)
```

    - Fix a wrong check in datetime when the datetime has a fraction and 'Z' [#12739](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12739)
    - Fix tikv crash when conv empty string [#12673](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12673)
    - Fix possible duplicate commit record in async-commit pessimistic transactions. [#12615](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12615)
    - Use `posix_fallocate` for space reservation. [#12543](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12543)

>     (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that TiKV reports the `invalid store ID 0` error when using Follower Read [#12478](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12478)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiKV reports the `invalid store ID 0` error when using Follower Read [#12478](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12478)
```

>     (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue of TiKV panic caused by the race between destroying peers and batch splitting Regions [#12368](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12368)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of TiKV panic caused by the race between destroying peers and batch splitting Regions [#12368](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12368)
```

>     (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that tikv-ctl returns an incorrect result due to its wrong string match [#12329](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12329)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that tikv-ctl returns an incorrect result due to its wrong string match [#12329](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12329)
```

        - Fix a bug that may causes goroutine leak in http server. [#5303](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5303)
        - `None` [#2792](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2792)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM))- Fix the issue that DM occupies more disk space after the task automatically resumes [#3734](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3734) [#5344](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5344)
        (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM))- Fix an issue that the uppercase table cannot be replicated when `case-sensitive: true` is not set [#5255](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5255)
        - `None`. [#4858](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4858)

## Compatibility change(s)

## Improvements

## Bug Fixes

+ PingCAP/TiDB

    <!--planner-->
    - ```release-note [#34678](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34678)

+ PingCAP/TiFlash

    <!--storage-->
    - Fix the TiFlash crash issue that occurs after dropping a column of a table with clustered indexes under some situations. [#5154](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5154)

>     (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix potential data inconsistency after a lot of INSERT and DELETE operations [#4956](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4956)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix potential data inconsistency after a lot of INSERT and DELETE operations [#4956](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4956)
    
    <!--compute-->
    - Fix wrong result of decimal comparing caused by overflow. [#4512](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4512)
```

    - Fix a wrong check in datetime when the datetime has a fraction and 'Z' [#12739](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12739)
    - Fix tikv crash when conv empty string [#12673](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12673)
    - Fix possible duplicate commit record in async-commit pessimistic transactions. [#12615](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12615)
    - Use `posix_fallocate` for space reservation. [#12543](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12543)
    - Fix the issue that TiKV reports the `invalid store ID 0` error when using Follower Read [#12478](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12478)
    - Fix the issue of TiKV panic caused by the race between destroying peers and batch splitting Regions [#12368](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12368)
    - Fix the issue that tikv-ctl returns an incorrect result due to its wrong string match [#12329](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12329)
    - Transfer the leadership to CDC observer to reduce latency jitter [#12111](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12111)

+ PD

>     (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Bug fixes> PD)- Fix the wrong status code of `not leader` [#4797](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4797)
>     (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Improvements> PD)- Disable compiling swagger server by default [#4932](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4932)
>     - Fix the issue that the hot region may cause panic due to no leader [#5005](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5005)
>     (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Bug fixes> PD)- Fix the issue that scheduling cannot start immediately after the PD leader transfer [#4769](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4769)
>     (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Bug fixes> PD)- Fix a bug of TSO fallback in some corner cases [#4884](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4884)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Fix the wrong status code of `not leader` [#4797](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4797)
    - Fix the issue that the hot region may cause panic due to no leader [#5005](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5005)
    - Fix the issue that scheduling cannot start immediately after the PD leader transfer [#4769](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4769)
    - Fix a bug of TSO fallback in some corner cases [#4884](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4884)
```

>     (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> TiDB)- Fix the error that occurs when reading from the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.ATTRIBUTES` table by skipping the unidentifiable table attributes [#33665](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33665)

Reviewer 7: This one should be put into TiDB section.

        - Fix replication interruption due to leader missing by extending region retry duration
        - Fix min resolved ts/checkpoint table ID metrics [#5542](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/5542)
        - `Fix a bug that mysql sink may save a wrong checkpointTs`. [#5107](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5107)
        - Fix a bug that may causes goroutine leak in http server. [#5303](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5303)
        - `None` [#2792](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2792)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM))- Fix the issue that DM occupies more disk space after the task automatically resumes [#3734](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3734) [#5344](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5344)
        (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM))- Fix an issue that the uppercase table cannot be replicated when `case-sensitive: true` is not set [#5255](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5255)
        - `None`. [#4858](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4858)

## Compatibility change(s)

> ## Improvements

Reviewer 7: + PD

    - Disable compiling swagger server by default [#4932](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4932)

> ## Improvements

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
## Improvements

+ PD

    - Disable compiling swagger server by default [#4932](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4932)
```

## Bug Fixes

+ PingCAP/TiDB

    <!--planner-->
    - ```release-note [#34678](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34678)

+ PingCAP/TiFlash

    <!--storage-->
    - Fix the TiFlash crash issue that occurs after dropping a column of a table with clustered indexes under some situations. [#5154](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5154)
    (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix potential data inconsistency after a lot of INSERT and DELETE operations [#4956](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4956)
    
    <!--compute-->

>     - Fix wrong result of decimal comparing caused by overflow. [#4512](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4512)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - Fix wrong result of Decimal comparing caused by overflow. [#4512](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4512)
```

        - Fix a bug that resolved ts moves too fast when part of tables are not maintained redo writer. [#5486](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5486)
        - Add uuid suffix to redo log file name to prevent name conflict, which may cause data loss. [#5486](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5486)
        - Fix replication interruption due to leader missing by extending region retry duration. [#5230](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5230)
        - Fix a bug that mysql sink may save a wrong checkpointTs. [#5107](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5107)
        - Fix a bug that may causes goroutine leak in http server. [#5303](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5303)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - Fix an issue that DM occupies more disk space after the task automatically resumes [#5344](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5344)
        - Fix an issue that the uppercase table cannot be replicated when `case-sensitive: true` is not set [#5255](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5255)

## Compatibility change(s)

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    <!--transaction-->

>     - Improve the recovery time if the tikv hibernate region is enabled [#34906](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34906)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    - Prevent sending requests to unhealthy TiKV nodes to improve availability [#34906](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34906)
```

> 

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    - Prevent sending requests to unhealthy TiKV nodes to improve availability. [#34906](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/34906)
    - Avoid WriteConflict errors in pessimistic transactions [#11612](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11612)
    - Fix an idempotency issue when undertermined errors and region errors are met in the same request [#34875](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34875)
    - Fix an atomicity issue when rolling back an async-commit transaction [#33641](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33641)
```

+ PD

    (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Improvements> PD)- Disable compiling swagger server by default [#4932](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4932)

## Bug Fixes

+ TiDB

    <!--planner-->
    - Fix wrong TableDual plans cached under binary protocol [#34690] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34690) [#34678] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34678)
    - Fix the wrongly inferred null flag of firstrow agg func in EqualAll case [#34584](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34584)
    - Fix the wrong 2-phase aggregate plan for TiFlash [#34682](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34682)
    - Fix the wrong null flag of final aggregate after aggregate is pushed through outer join [#34465](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34465)
    - Fix the wrong memory-usage value used when Plan Cache evicts [#34613](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34613)

    <!--transaction-->
    - Fix the issue that the column list does not work in the load data statement [#35198](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35198)

> 

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    - Avoid WriteConflict errors in pessimistic transactions [#11612](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11612)
    - Fix an idempotency issue when undertermined errors and region errors are met in the same request [#34875](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34875)
    - Fix an atomicity issue when rolling back an async-commit transaction [#33641](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33641)
```
```

    - Fix bug which causes frequent pd client reconnection [#12345](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12345)
    - Fix a wrong check in datetime when the datetime has a fraction and 'Z' [#12739](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12739)
    - Fix tikv crash when conv empty string [#12673](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12673)
    - Fix possible duplicate commit record in async-commit pessimistic transactions. [#12615](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12615)
    (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that TiKV reports the `invalid store ID 0` error when using Follower Read [#12478](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12478)
    (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue of TiKV panic caused by the race between destroying peers and batch splitting Regions [#12368](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12368)
    (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that tikv-ctl returns an incorrect result due to its wrong string match [#12329](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12329)

+ PD

    (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Bug fixes> PD)- Fix the wrong status code of `not leader` [#4797](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4797)

>     - Fix the issue that the hot region may cause panic due to no leader [#5005](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5005)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Fix the PD panic that occurs when a hot region has no leader [#5005](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5005)
```
keep consistent with 5.3.2

---
title: TiDB 5.4.2 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 5.4.2 Release Notes

Release Date: xx xx, 2022

TiDB version: 5.4.2

## __unsorted

+ PingCAP/TiDB

    <!--planner-->
    - ```release-note [#34613](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34613)

+ Tools

    + BR

        - ```release-note [#35279](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35279)
        - ```release-note [#34865](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34865)
        - ```release-note [#34956](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34956)
        - ```release-note [#34350](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34350)
        (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR))- Fix a bug that BR gets stuck when the restore operation meets some unrecoverable errors [#33200](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33200)

    + TiDB Lightning

        (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Improvements> Tools> TiDB Lightning)- Optimize Scatter Region to batch mode to improve the stability of the Scatter Region process [#33618](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33618)

>     + PingCAP/TiCDC

Reviewer 9: `PingCAP/TiCDC` is expected?

Reviewer: Thanks for the reminder. That's auto-generated by a script. I'll edit them later.

        (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Improvements> Tools> TiDB Lightning)- Optimize Scatter Region to batch mode to improve the stability of the Scatter Region process [#33618](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33618)

## Bug Fixes

+ TiDB

    <!--planner-->

>     - Fix wrong TableDual plans cached under binary protocol [#34690] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34690) [#34678] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34678)
>     - Fix the wrongly inferred null flag of firstrow agg func in EqualAll case [#34584](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34584)
>     - Fix the wrong 2-phase aggregate plan for TiFlash [#34682](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34682)
>     - Fix the wrong null flag of final aggregate after aggregate is pushed through outer join [#34465](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34465)
>     - Fix the wrong memory-usage value used when Plan Cache evicts [#34613](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34613)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of wrong TableDual plans cached in binary protocol [#34690] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34690) [#34678] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34678)
    - Fix the issue of incorrectly inferred null flag of the TiFlash `firstrow` aggregate function in the EqualAll case [#34584](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34584)
    - Fix the issue that the planner generates wrong 2-phase aggregate plan for TiFlash [#34682](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34682)
    - Fix the planner wrong behaviors that occur when `tidb_opt_agg_push_down` and `tidb_enforce_mpp` are enabled [#34465](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34465)
    - Fix the wrong memory-usage value used when Plan Cache is evicted [#34613](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34613)
```

    <!--transaction-->
    - Fix the issue that the column list does not work in the load data statement [#35198](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35198)
    - Avoid WriteConflict errors in pessimistic transactions [#11612](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11612)
    - Fix an idempotency issue when undertermined errors and region errors are met in the same request [#34875](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34875)
    - Fix an atomicity issue when rolling back an async-commit transaction [#33641](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33641)
    <!--sql-infra-->
    (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiDB)- Previously, when a network connectivity issue occurred, TiDB did not always correctly free the resources held by the disconnected session. This issue has been fixed so that open transactions can be rolled back and other associated resources can be released. [#34722](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34722)

>     - Fix querying CTE views may unexpectedly report `references invalid table`. [#33965](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33965)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `references invalid table` error might be incorrectly reported when TiDB queries views with CTE [#33965](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33965)
```

    <!--diagnosis-->
    (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiDB)- Fix the panic issue caused by the `fatal error: concurrent map read and map write` error [#35340](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35340)

    (dup: release-5.4.1.md > Bug Fixes> TiDB)- Fix the error that occurs when reading from the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.ATTRIBUTES` table by skipping the unidentifiable table attributes [#33665](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33665)

+ TiKV

    - Fix the panic issue caused by analyzed statistics when `max_sample_size` is set to `0` [#11192](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11192)
    (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the potential issue of mistakenly reporting TiKV panics when exiting TiKV [#12231](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12231)

>     - Fix the panic issue when source peer catch up logs by snapshot in merge [#12663](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12663)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    - Fix the panic issue that might occur when the source peer catches up logs by snapshot in the Region merge process [#12663](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12663)
```

>     - Fix the panic issue when a peer is being split and destroyed at the same time [#12825](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12825)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    - Fix the panic issue that might occur when a peer is being split and destroyed at the same time [#12825](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12825)
```

    (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue of time parsing error that occurs when the `DATETIME` values contain a fraction and `Z` [#12739](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12739)
    (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that TiKV panics when performing type conversion for an empty string [#12673](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12673)
    (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> TiKV)- Fix the possible duplicate commit records in pessimistic transactions when async commit is enabled [#12615](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12615)
    (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that TiKV reports the `invalid store ID 0` error when using Follower Read [#12478](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12478)
    (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue of TiKV panic caused by the race between destroying peers and batch splitting Regions [#12368](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12368)
    (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that tikv-ctl returns an incorrect result due to its wrong string match [#12329](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12329)

>     - Fix the issue of failing to start TiKV that occurs on the aufs [#12543](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12543)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of failing to start TiKV on AUFS [#12543](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12543)
```

+ PD

    - Fix the wrong status code of `not leader` [#4797](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4797)
    - Fix the PD panic that occurs when a hot region has no leader [#5005](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5005)
    - Fix the issue that scheduling cannot start immediately after the PD leader transfer [#4769](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4769)
    - Fix a bug of TSO fallback in some corner cases [#4884](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4884)

+ TiFlash

    <!--storage-->
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash crashes after dropping a column of a table with clustered indexes in some situations [#5154](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5154)
    - Fix potential data inconsistency after a lot of INSERT and DELETE operations [#4956](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4956)

    <!--compute-->
    - Fix wrong decimal comparison results in corner cases [#4512](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4512)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

>         - Fix a bug that BR reports `ErrRestoreTableIDMismatch` in RawKV mode [35279](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35279)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
        - Fix a bug that BR reports `ErrRestoreTableIDMismatch` in RawKV mode [#35279](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35279)
```

>     + BR

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    + Backup & Restore (BR)
```

>         - Avoid to report ErrRestoreTableIDMismatch for BR on RawKV mode [35279](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35279)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
        - Fix a bug that BR reports `ErrRestoreTableIDMismatch` in RawKV mode [35279](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35279)
```

>         - BR will retry for saving file error correctly now [#34865](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34865)
>         - Fix a panic issue when running BR [#34956](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34956)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
        - Fix a bug that BR does not retry when an error occurs in saving files [#34865](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34865)
        - Fix a panic issue when BR is running [#34956](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34956)
```

        (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR))- Fix the issue that BR cannot handle S3 internal errors [#34350](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34350)
        (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR))- Fix a bug that BR gets stuck when the restore operation meets some unrecoverable errors [#33200](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33200)

    + TiCDC

        (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix data loss that occurs in special incremental scanning scenarios [#5468](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5468)

>         (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the bug that the redo log manager flushes logs before writing logs [#5486](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5486)
>         (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the bug that the redo log manager flushes logs before writing logs [#5486](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5486)
>         (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the bug that the redo log manager flushes logs before writing logs [#5486](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5486)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
        (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix a bug that the redo log manager flushes logs before writing logs [#5486](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5486)
        (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix a bug that the redo log manager flushes logs before writing logs [#5486](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5486)
        (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix a bug that the redo log manager flushes logs before writing logs [#5486](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5486)
```

>         - Fix replication interruption due to leader missing by extending region retry duration. [#5230](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5230)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix replication interruption that occurs when the retry exceeds the limit due to Region Leader missing [#5230](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5230)
```

Reviewer: Thanks. Updated!

        (dup: release-5.3.2.md > Bug Fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the bug that MySQL Sink may save a wrong checkpointTs [#5107](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5107)

>         - Fix a bug that may causes goroutine leak in http server. [#5303](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5303)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the bug that may cause goroutine leak in HTTP server. [#5303](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5303)
```

>         - Fix the issue that meta Region changes can lead latency increasing [#4756](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4756) [#4762](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4762)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that changes in meta Region can lead to latency increase [#4756](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4756) [#4762](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4762)
```

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

>         - Fix an issue that DM occupies more disk space after the task automatically resumes [#5344](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5344)
>         (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM))- Fix an issue that the uppercase table cannot be replicated when `case-sensitive: true` is not set [#5255](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5255)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that DM occupies more disk space after a task automatically resumes [#5344](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5344)
        (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM))- Fix the issue that the uppercase table cannot be replicated when `case-sensitive: true` is not set [#5255](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5255)
```

---
title: TiDB 5.4.2 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 5.4.2 Release Notes

Release Date: xx xx, 2022

TiDB version: 5.4.2

## __unsorted

+ PingCAP/TiDB

    <!--diagnosis-->

>     - ```release-note [#35340](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35340)

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of concurrent map read and write on statement summary. [#35340](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35340)
```

        - `None`. [#4858](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4858)

## Compatibility change(s)

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    <!--transaction-->
    - Improve the recovery time if the tikv hibernate region is enabled [#34906](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34906)

+ TiKV

    - Reload TLS certificate automatically when it changes. [#12546](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12546)
    (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Improvements> TiKV)- Improve the health check to detect unavailable Raftstore, so that the TiKV client can update Region Cache in time [#12398](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12398)
    - Use `posix_fallocate` for space reservation. [#12543](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12543)
    (dup: release-5.2.4.md > Improvements> TiKV)- Transfer the leadership to CDC observer to reduce latency jitter [#12111](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12111)

+ PD

    (dup: release-6.1.0.md > Improvements> PD)- Disable compiling swagger server by default [#4932](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4932)

## Bug Fixes

+ TiDB

> 

Reviewer 3: <!--sql-infra-->
    - Fix TiDB does not free the resources of the disconnected session correctly when a network connectivity event occurred. [#34722](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34722)
    - Fix querying CTE views unexpectedly reports `references invalid table`. [#33965](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33965)
